README.md, before:


This repository is now closed and replaced with https://github.com/eclipse/scanning which is the open source project to which the repository was moving to over about a year and a half. The move has been compeleted please use https://github.com/eclipse/scanning.

The repository exists now so that history of files is possible to see.


>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>

# [daq-eclipse](http://diamondlightsource.github.io/daq-eclipse)  


[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.org/DiamondLightSource/daq-eclipse.png)](https://travis-ci.org/DiamondLightSource/daq-eclipse)


The purpose of this repository is to hold open source code before it is submitted into an Eclipse Project.

This repository is checked by a Travis CI build which looks at the last commit message.

It is compulsory to reference a jira commit or merge from a commit that does or the build will fail.

# Adding Tests
The test system is linked into Travis CI and your pull request will be checked with the build and test. Tests should not be added in the same bundle that created the feature but in a .test bundle which may be a fragment of the original bundle. This enables the build to remove test code from the binary easily because those bundles are not in the feature. NOTE This has the added benefit that your test bunles or fragment may have dependencies which the main bundle does not. For instance in org.eclipse.scanning.test we depend on almost eveything imaginable but of course this bundle is not part of the binary product.

Instead of having to name your class *Test as in other projects, in this project you should add a Suite to each package of tests. This defines the tests that are run automatically in the build. This procedure allows for long running or CPU/threading tests to be ommited from a build to keep the run time down while waiting for the merge.

Example: [org.eclipse.scanning.test.points.Suite](https://github.com/DiamondLightSource/daq-eclipse/blob/master/org.eclipse.scanning.test/src/org/eclipse/scanning/test/points/Suite.java)

# Check out a development version
1. Clone repositories as specified in .travis.yml at the top of this repository (richbeans, dawnsci, dawn-hdf) 
2. Clone this repositiory to org.eclipse.scanning
3. Import all the bundles from all the repos to your eclipse workspace (other IDE's are available but they probably don't support target platforms)
4. Use the org.eclipse.scanning.target.platform target plaform which will pull in a few apacahe dependencies
5. After setting this target as the target platform, your code should compile
6. Start an apachemq on localhost:61616
7. Run the example server and example client and go to the 'X-Ray Centering' example erspective or the 'Scanning' perspective.

Commit message:

DAQ-532 * Remove conflicting copies of org.eclipse.scanning projects.
This fixes the problem where old files from daq-eclipse.git were being
used instead of new files from scanning.git just because they existed on
the file system, resulting in a "setFilePath(): 1st arg can't be coerced
to String" error when trying to run an mscan.

Also update README.md to add instructions for how to graft this history
into the eclipse scanning repository.

README.md, after:


This repository is now closed and has been replaced with https://github.com/eclipse/scanning which is the open source project to which the repository has been moved.

This repository now exists to hold the projects which weren't moved to https://github.com/eclipse/scanning and hold the history of files.

To use `git replace` to import this history into your current eclipse scanning repository:

    cd scanning.git
    git remote add project-history git://github.com/DiamondLightSource/daq-eclipse.git
    git fetch project-history
    git replace -g 712c0bb1fa039a203c7187240affa4ae3ddebedf f76df577dc007570d9309aadf48eaf480daf851b

To reverse this, simply delete the replace spec:

    git replace -d 712c0bb1fa039a203c7187240affa4ae3ddebedf


>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>

# [daq-eclipse](http://diamondlightsource.github.io/daq-eclipse)  


[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.org/DiamondLightSource/daq-eclipse.png)](https://travis-ci.org/DiamondLightSource/daq-eclipse)


The purpose of this repository is to hold open source code before it is submitted into an Eclipse Project.

This repository is checked by a Travis CI build which looks at the last commit message.

It is compulsory to reference a jira commit or merge from a commit that does or the build will fail.

# Adding Tests
The test system is linked into Travis CI and your pull request will be checked with the build and test. Tests should not be added in the same bundle that created the feature but in a .test bundle which may be a fragment of the original bundle. This enables the build to remove test code from the binary easily because those bundles are not in the feature. NOTE This has the added benefit that your test bunles or fragment may have dependencies which the main bundle does not. For instance in org.eclipse.scanning.test we depend on almost eveything imaginable but of course this bundle is not part of the binary product.

Instead of having to name your class *Test as in other projects, in this project you should add a Suite to each package of tests. This defines the tests that are run automatically in the build. This procedure allows for long running or CPU/threading tests to be ommited from a build to keep the run time down while waiting for the merge.

Example: [org.eclipse.scanning.test.points.Suite](https://github.com/DiamondLightSource/daq-eclipse/blob/master/org.eclipse.scanning.test/src/org/eclipse/scanning/test/points/Suite.java)

# Check out a development version
1. Clone repositories as specified in .travis.yml at the top of this repository (richbeans, dawnsci, dawn-hdf) 
2. Clone this repositiory to org.eclipse.scanning
3. Import all the bundles from all the repos to your eclipse workspace (other IDE's are available but they probably don't support target platforms)
4. Use the org.eclipse.scanning.target.platform target plaform which will pull in a few apacahe dependencies
5. After setting this target as the target platform, your code should compile
6. Start an apachemq on localhost:61616
7. Run the example server and example client and go to the 'X-Ray Centering' example erspective or the 'Scanning' perspective.
